#####################
cookiecutter-chrisapp
#####################

A cookiecutter template for ChRIS plugin apps.


Abstract
========

This page describes how to get started with creating a ChRIS plugin. The first-time steps typically involve:

* Installing a python virtual environment for development.
* Creating (if not already done) github and dockerhub accounts.
* Checking out this repo and running the script and then associating the app you are creating with both github and dockerhub.

Requirements
============

* ``Python`` and ``pip`` (which is usually installed with Python)
* Latest ``Docker`` (17.04.0+) if you want to test your plugin's docker image and containers in your local machine. Visit https://docs.docker.com/install/ for installation directions



Install virtualenv and virtualenvwrapper
----------------------------------------
::

    pip install virtualenv virtualenvwrapper
    
note: anaconda_ users on macOS should use the conda environment tools
directly instead. See `this thread`_ and the linked discussion on the
anaconda mailing list. A working set of commands is `noted here`_.

.. _anaconda: https://anaconda.org/
.. _`this thread`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42190984/dyld-library-not-loaded-error-preventing-virtualenv-from-loading
.. _`noted here`: https://github.com/FNNDSC/cookiecutter-chrisapp/pull/6#issuecomment-376626896

Setup your virtual environments
-------------------------------

Create a directory for your virtual environments e.g::

    mkdir ~/python_envs


Open your .bashrc file::

    vim ~/.bashrc


Add these two lines to your .bashrc file::

    export WORKON_HOME=~/python_envs
    source $(which virtualenvwrapper.sh | head -n 1)


Create a new **Python3** virtual environment::

    mkvirtualenv --python=python3 chrisapp_env


To activate chrisapp_env::

    workon chrisapp_env


To deactivate chrisapp_env::

    deactivate


GitHub Account
--------------

Create a GitHub account on https://github.com/ if you don't already have one.


Docker Hub Account
------------------

Create a Docker Hub account on https://hub.docker.com/ if you don't already have one.


Quickstart
==========

The steps below show how to quickly create and setup a new ChRIS plugin app project.


1. Create a **Python3** virtual environment for your plugin apps and activate it if you haven't created it yet (follow steps in Requirements).

2. Install the latest Cookiecutter in ``chrisapp_env`` if you haven't installed it yet::

    pip install -U cookiecutter


3. Generate a ChRIS plugin app project:

.. code:: bash

    cookiecutter https://github.com/FNNDSC/cookiecutter-chrisapp.git
    
In running the above command, you will be prompted for an app project name. The app project name should be a valid python module name as described here https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#package-and-module-names.

The interactive script will ask you to choose between two types of ChRIS plugins.

i.  **FS** (or **Feed Synthesis**) plugin app. These create (synthesize) a new top level Feed -- typically from some event (a user drags and drops files into a box; a user queries a database for data; etc). These plugins **only** enforce a single positional argument -- an output directory where the results of the synthesis event are stored. **FS** plugins create a new feed (data container) in the ChRIS system. Thus, **FS** plugins are always the single root of a pipeline or tree of plugin executions. If one considers a processing chain or pipeline as an abstracted linked list, an **FS** plugin corresponds to the head node of the list.


ii. **DS** (or **Data Synthesis**) plugin app. These are by far the most common plugins and enforce **two** positional arguments: an **input** directory (typically the result of a previous plugin's output) and an **output** directory.

The first plugin of a pipeline would always be a single **FS** plugin followed by a (possibly branched) chain of **DS** plugins creating files in the same single feed that was created by the root **FS** plugin. **Most of the time you will be creating a DS plugin when integrating your software application in ChRIS**.

4. Create a new repository on https://github.com/**your_github_username** with the same name as the app project
   directory generated by the previous cookiecutter command. Make sure that the repository is
   public. Don’t initialize the repository with a ``README``, a ``license`` or a ``.gitignore`` file.


5. Change the current working directory to the app project and initialize this local directory
   as a Git repository::

    git init


6. Add and commit the files in the local repository::

    git add .
    git commit -m "First commit"


7. Add the URL for the remote Github repository created in ``step 4`` where your local repository will be pushed::

    git remote add origin **remote_Github_repository_URL** (eg. https://github.com/FNNDSC/pl-neuproseg.git)
    git remote -v


8. Push the changes in your local repository to GitHub::

    git push origin master


9. Create a new repository with automated build on your Docker Hub account (https://hub.docker.com).

   Once you log in, click the ``Create Repository +``  button. At the top of the page, enter a name for the dockerhub repository -- this name can be anything of course. We recommend using the same as the github repo. Then, click on the github icon towards the bottom (it also should say "Connected" under the icon). For the github organization choose, for example, FNNDSC, and then within that organization select the repository created above.
   
   **It is extremely important that you tag your automatically built docker image with an appropriate version number based on your Github tags**. Please create a new build rule by clicking the ``BUILD RULES +``  button. A good rule good be **Source type:** ``Tag``, **Source:** ``/^[0-9.]+$/`` and **Docker Tag:** ``version-{sourceref}``.

   Click ``Create && Build``  button to finish the setup and trigger the automated build.

   For more information on Automated Builds, please visit https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/builds/.

10. Modify ``requirements.txt``, ``setup.py``, ``Dockerfile`` and the Python code with the proper versions of
    Python dependencies and libraries and push your changes to Github.

    Look at https://github.com/FNNDSC/pl-simplefsapp (a simple **fs** plugin) and https://github.com/FNNDSC/pl-simpledsapp (a simple **ds** plugin)
    for guidance on getting started with your ChRIS plugin!

11. Once you've developed and properly tested your plugin app you can make a new release by running the provided ``release.sh`` script with a
    version number for the release.

12. Finally please consult the wiki_ to learn how to register your containerized plugin app to ChRIS and the ChRIS store.

.. _wiki: https://github.com/FNNDSC/cookiecutter-chrisapp/wiki
